game concept: travel to another side
like the seasons changing thing, but a door where colors etc change

strange stats

you play as a moving ant colony, you can throw ants to attack but you lose ants
getting hurt makes you lose ants
when you run out of ants you lose
you can pick up ants along the way

only one spell, but you can upgrade it

that is just an ordinary cup. pay it no mind.

something with time control - i have the chronos asset

2d platformer where light kills you

you get three wishes at the start of every level/segment - these can be lives, stats, weapons, and more (could be a theme idea for the infinite shmup)
maybe should have checkpoints and options for a few saved games
enemies drop things? items? health? etc.

play off of chibi robo 3ds concepts, but a good game
whip-like item serves as a weapon and also to rope/zipline onto ledges and platforms
can unlock abilities for it, like spinning it around, make it longer, elements, etc.

platformer with 30 second time limit for each level/segment

similar game idea to all other cubes make same or mirrored movements as you, but you also can clone them by going into a certain spot

vaporwave esque infinite runner/flyer/dodger

play as a chameleon and need to blend in, can unlock/learn new colors/patterns to blend in to

puzzle where every action does two things

Two very different ways to play the same game - puzzle game where you can either solve the puzzle or brute force it by destroying the blocks but not dying

World pieces (A large world from small multi-connected nodes)

Confined - 2d platformer puzzles with very small rooms

Two Opposing Forces - magnet/repel/attract-based puzzle game?

death does not matter - ants, have to die to open up ways to other parts or make it safe

Achievments - fake achievements making fun of xbox/achievement obsession nowadays

coding - sequence puzzles games like opus magnum

What hurts you hurts me - take damage the enemies take, so can only kill so many and have to dodge the rest - they can still damage you without you damaging them

floral pattern - also fractals, other patterns, for puzzle game or cool-looking background

Obstacles help you improve - eaach obstacle slightly increases your abilities like jump height so that you can clear obstacles that are more challenging

You are the key - you can pick up things and add them on to yourself to change your shape in various ways
maybe a robot? when you pick up a new part you can pick a location to add it in
doorways require certain shapes to open, and you are the key. picking up parts and structuring yourself in certain ways allows you to be that shape

Overcrowded - a stupid god sim where you deal with dense areas i.e. china with costco

Recycle - educational crafting game

Running out of colour - color is a resource you have to use to color a grayscale world 

wind control game where taps reverse the wind

You only have a hat - trench coat and derby, all control revolves around hat - throw it and teleport/jump to it, attack with it, jump on top of it

Under half control - game controls one part - movement, jumping, action, attacks, etc. - and you control the other. try to get through platformers like this

Science Magic - would be neat to merge things like geography magic, biomancy, etc.

Moving Grounds - puzzle platformer where you can press ground to make it jump up so you can reach things, uncover ways, destroy things, etc.

Mazes are (not) fun - instead of solving mazes, destroy them with blasts and get to the end

Too many birds - seagull/geese hate

Cross-section
frictionless
Everything is destructible
The game needs your help
Echoes
Rejected Nursery Rhymes
Everything in the game starts with the same letter.
You can only interact with the game in the beginning
Pain opens new possibilities
Anything can become a weapon
Two Colors
It has to rhyme!
censorship
Tea
Positive Negative
Nothing can stop you