lemmings
incredible machine
goldberg pun/joke
transformice
funny games
contraception game - get pregnant or avoid it
play as a sperm?
upgrade/modify your sperm
space theme? can be applied to just about anything
online oregon trail that requires co op
game about the floor is lava
end of game is someone off screen calling her for dinner, screen changes to room, she looks over says ok and runs off
puzzle game where things change between past/future
water pipes game
rube goldberg game
simple strategy card game
ice sliding puzzle game
lode runner
dos games

puzzle game where you go back/forward in time
can switch seasons

have towns as well with "puzzles" (quests)
sad things, happy things with families, legacies, people getting sick and dying, the way life is/things are, etc.
activist trying to change something, in the future it's still the same
show how people are still about the same level of happy no matter what


Dogs RPG
Space-like TES game with ship customization
Possible MMO
Card game
Game with very customizable spell system
3D puzzle/story/atmosphere based game where the puzzles revolve around you turning time forward and back. The environment changes or effects happens depending on the time (rotted wood, rivers flowing, rocks dis/appearing, etc.). Towns/politics/other things can change for emotional effect in the story
Turn-based rpg that is actually challenging with a meaningful, different combat system
Space-based game where you rule a nation/empire. Start off as a citizen of a settlement, become leader, commander, 2nd in command, etc. You manage the economics, etc. of the empire. Everything - food shortages, punishing worlds, starting or stopping wars, etc.
Slime alchemy game done for game jam - expand on it, quests, writs, battles, etc.

Cooking game where the object is to make unique/weird dishes with things that don't really go together

getting to a planet first means trying to secure mining rights for it
if someone arrives around sound time or before you get them, you can kill them, try to get them to like you, bribe them, etc.

iap ideas:
instead of remove ads
points accumulate and you can purchase things with them
you can also purchase things with real money
rewarded ad to continue - once per play? a cooldown?
theme changes
watch a rewarded ad at the start to try a different theme


game with dungeon tiles where you make your own
deck building dungeon building game
every tile has:
-difficulty/rewards
-a top and a bottom
-a point cost (you have a point req for each floor)

the game works out the placement of enemies, boss, keys, locked doors, treasures, upgrades, etc.

vr game where you look like a thing with no feet and long arms
jump/move by moving your arms

spiderman-like shooting vr game

ideas:
lemmings like
the incredible machines
spaceship building game
tactics game
potion deckbuilding game
spell deckbuilding game
card game with time travel where you can undo others turns/actions
card game where you create animals like the mtg unset
android version of windows phone desktop dock
cards of humanity type game for video game ideas (or other media?)
tabletop game that revolves around portals - creating them, destroying others' to move around and gain positional advantage


p38 tiger cry ham and egg


First, we'll make a circle travel around a cube. Click on the blab lah to blah blah.

Well done! You're a natural. We'll have you up in no time!

Oh, no. No. What have you done? You've really done it now. Oh, no. Oh, my.

Simple graphics but use effects screen shakes etc.


lcg where you build spells
spell components
can cast x spells per turn
can have x amount of spells (as many as you want?)
each spell can have x diff types of components
similar concept as game
components are things like effects (what spell actually does), triggers (like when you cast it, this happens, when you take damage, etc), type (hex - effect happens every turn, more expensive, bolts, auras, etc)

lcg about raising monsters and then fighting with them (2 phases or at the same time?)



deckbuilding games with 52 card deck
card values are as normal, with face cards being J10, Q11, K12, A13
hearts - ignore 1 card/1 less card next turn
spades - draw from the main deck
clubs - swap with opponent
diamonds - none (draw?). win condition. when the game deck is depleted, the game immediately ends and players go through their personal decks and count the total value of all these. whoever has the most wins. if tied, then clubs. if tied, then spades. if tied, then hearts
choose a card to play each turn that will be your effect. its number does not matter. the rest of your cards will be played for their value

players have no starting deck. players draw 5 cards each from the main deck.
create a trade row of 5 cards. same rules as star realms.
at the end of each turn, players discard what's left of their hand and draw 5 more cards. shuffle discard pile into deck as necessary to draw 5 total.
there are two goals every turn: counter the opponent's cards, or pass yours

every turn, must choose 1 card to play
need to choose between which suit you want and which suit you think you can win

vampire survivor/bullet heaven type game combined with creature collector/pokemon genre
you find new enemies and can "tame" (?) them somehow
you can have up to 3 (too few?) on a team at a time
this team makeup is essentially your build
each enemy has its own ability, type, size, speed, etc
on top of that, the character your pick has a unique ability
maybe also pick a trait or something that makes fire enemies do more, effect

platformer game (think megaman zero) where your attacks are physics-based
you have a bladed whip kind of weapon
instead of a static attack animation, you can send your weapon out in front and pull it back
however, this is controlled by a physics system
if the blade collides with an enemy, it does damage (based on speed?) AND cuts them in the specified spot like how megaman zero does (eg robot gets sliced in half vert or horiz)
what other things can be done besides apply force forward and back? spin in circle? other stuff?