MMO Brainstorming
Overall Idea
Can level up any stat you want (or reset at any time? maybe for pvp?); every x levels causes you to level up

Attributes
STR - Your physical abilities become more powerful. (includes melee and ranged)
WIS - Your magical abilities become more powerful. (includes melee and ranged)
INT - Increases MP.
VIT - Increases HP.
HEL - Your healing abilities become more powerful.
Probably need more (maybe? should try to have few of these)
It might actually be a good idea to do completely away with these! They could possibly be turned into talents, especially VIT and INT.

Talents
Talents - While there are very few amounts of attributes, there are many skills, such as Sword, Axe, Hammer, Scythe, Dagger, Rapiers, Bow, Greatbow, Staff, etc. This could open up a lot of possibilities, especially if certain (all?) weapons could play multiple roles - i.e. a rapier may be suitable for either a meleer or a caster, or a combination of both.
All that is needed to level up these talents is the use of them. They do not level you up, but your level will restrict you from leveling them (needed for balance?) up to a certain point. On the downside, this may cause players to be inefficient in their role if they do not have the maximum level possible in talent x at their level. A system that would solve this would be the old one I had in mind - a player is allowed so many skill points -depending on their level -to spend however they like. These skill points are completely refundable and redistributable, so long as the player is within a safe haven, such as a town. In leveling up talents, the level and the skill points required have an exponential relationship. That is, at a low level, it costs little to level them up, but the higher you go, the more it costs for just one level up. Could make some skills free, but these would have to be very barebones skills. This could be a very flexible system in that skills could have different maximum levels, different level-to-point-cost ratios, etc. A limit on the number of skills a player can have on their skillbar may be a good idea, though this may be effectively accomplished through the use of skill points making the skills useful, anyway. A player could spend very little on many skills, and have a very versatile, but weak, role, or a lot on few skills, spread out, etc. It should be like Guild Wars, where theoretically, anything is viable. Since any class can learn any talents, anyone can do anything, but this also means players must put in more work, which could draw people away. A possible incentive would be to have the experience gained in a skill based on the level of the monster you are fighting, and not how many times you actually use the skill (or the level of the monster at least an aiding factor). This way, if a player has spent all of his time thus far in training sword and bow, and suddenly he decides he wants to try time magic out, his attributes are leveled so that he can train on monsters more near to his level and raise time magic up from level 1 faster, rather than starting out on level 1 monsters all over again. The purpose of the system would be to encourage many different viable builds into a metagame. Or, if skills are leveled depending on how many times you use them, other factors could be taken into account, as well, such as how much damage you do and/or how high the monster is. This way, high-leveled players could level low attributes quickly.
Leveling up talents could unlock skills for that particular thing - it doesn't necessary have to be a weapon, such as Time Magic, White Magic, Evasion, etc.
Possible talents:
Sword
Greatsword
Dagger
Whip
Axe
Hammer
Mace
Rapier
Bow
Greatbow
Crossbow
Shuriken(?)
Elemental Magic (could possibly put attunements into this; would go well in combining magic with physical)
Healing Magic
Green Magic (?)(would be buffs, debuffs, status, etc.)
Time Magic
Staff
Evade
Agility
Courage
Guard (this would be the talent for shields as well as other defensive stances (buffs?))
Summoning
Beastmastery (difference between this and summoning? also, could this have a better name? taming, etc.)
Dextrous (allows for various skills in anything that involves your hands; blades, throwing stars, etc., high enough level allows dual-wielding)
Lichhood, Vampirism, etc. (see *)
Alchemy/Herblore: Allows for Potion skills that increase a stat/damage/defense/etc. by x% for y secs - healing, too? Can only use on self, though. Mixing (some?) potions results in bad reactions in the body, resulting in damage, but still gaining both of the bonuses. Maybe make it branch out so that some potions can be combined into a new skill. (for explanation: your little helper makes the potion for you).
*Could be an interesting idea to have skill lines that are only available when in certain forms. For instance, the player could do a quest or something to enable them to turn into a Lich (in order to be able to turn into one you would need to meet certain skill reqs, such as 50 necromancy + 20 strength, etc.). The skill lines would become available, but there obviously need to be certain downsides? Limited time only (probably a bad idea; would just become a game of the forms being the best/most fun)? Debuffs that make it impractical for lots of builds? Maybe it should just limit your skill points? Think more. Maybe should have a static form for forms; i.e. your armor will not show, and you cannot change the armor/weapon for it. Should look cool, but also discourage everyone rolling one, since the game still needs to be versatile.
Some more skill lines along this train of thought could be Wings (could be used for lots of things, including Lichhood or Vampirism, and also having "Wings" being a form of its own" - maybe could combine forms? i.e. wings look different when used with lich or vamp form - too powerful? cut each forms' power when used together? what is the form limit? merely the skill points?)
Some sort of alteration? Could change the types of damage of attacks (yours and enemies')? i.e. crush is good against warrior armor - might not be a good idea, as then the weapon you're carrying will quite concretely determine your role. May be better to just include interesting perks with some skill lines, such as a Magic Hammer skill, which deals crush damage.
On that note, could damage be calculated with two criteria: school and type (other names?)? For instance, if a warrior is wearing platemail, he is naturally weak to magic attacks, but also resistant to crush, so an attack like Magic Hammer (and any other attack, but this is a good example) would take both into account. Which gets more weight? Equal? Maybe magic hammer should just deal crush?

REMEMBER: Don't suffer from the syndrome of having too many skills! Remember playing WAR, and having 30 buffs/debuffs on you at once - don't really know what's going on, and it completely loses both its strategy and its fun - if unavoidable, could do it like oblivion - lots of different abilities, but all boil down to certain affects. For instance, fire damage would always show up as fire damage in your status bar - you didn't care what caused it. Could also do it how Guild Wars did it - there are only a handful of conditions/hex debuffs/enchantment buffs (hex and enchantments were actually pretty versatile, which is reassuring), but there were many different ways to do them.
Could be a good idea to have important bonuses (not necessarily huge, though) at certain intervals in skills, i.e. at least 50 in sword = +4 str, etc.

Think of other PvE things, such as talents that raise potions' effectiveness or soemthing, maybe speechcraft for better deals at merchants
Should some talents (or skills?) require a certain level on other talent(s) before they are able to be used? Like in FFT, you need so many skills from one class and so many from another to be another class. An MMO example: you need to be level 40 in bow and 30 in strength in order to wield a greatbow. This could be good for making players train/use skills they normally wouldnt, if not just for the requirement. However, since this is an MMO, and all things need to be balanced, the locked ones cannot be better - just different. Or maybe the unlocked ones are used at lower levels, while the locked ones are used once you get to higher levels? Probably not - don't want to limit PvP to "levels 1-20, 21-40, etc." - want it to be everyone against everyone. If this is the case, maybe the level cap should be pretty low - or non existent if attributes are taken out completely. In this case, total level would show instead of level when examining anothe player. Even in this case, though, would PvP be divided up based on total levels? This would probably not be as much of a problem, as everyone has the same amount of skillpoints to spend (from the very beginning, if levels are done away with) - they need only make an effective build. Players with more talents will be able to do more things and try more ideas, but players with a low number of still adequately-leveled talents will still be evenly matched.
Skills
Aquisition? This could be through talents, monsters, achievements, attributes, level, using certain weapons (like in FFT) and more, or a combination of them. Could also have passive skills, but you only get them if your level in that skill is so high (these would not level up (?)). Could have some fun with these, too - like if you kill a certain monster enough, do a certain quest, partake in a certain holiday event, etc., you gain a skill that lets you turn other players into frogs (just an example; people might not appreciate this one after a while!)

Weapons
Should weapons play an integral role in build development? That is, should there be an optimal choice of weapon for a certain build? There are many options for weapon customization - going the way of Guild Wars, mods could be put on weapons. This offers a lot of options, especially considering the mods could be a lot of different things - i.e. Time Magic +x% (on any weapon! this could be a big thing - or, maybe, to encourage the use of certain talents so they don't go unused, certain things only be used with staves, etc. - however, one limitation on efficiency could limit the whole game). Or all status/buffs last x%/xs longer - you get the idea. 
Could also go the route of piece-by-piece customization. Weapon drops would not come as actual weapons, but parts! Put these parts together to get a complete weapon. For instance, there could be a hilt, a jewel, and a blade for swords. Each one could revolve around a certain aspect. For instance, hilts (usually; it might be a good idea to create exceptions to make builds more versatile) help with accuracy, jewels help with effects, and blade determines damage.  The downside of this method is that there would have to be an extremely large amount of weapon parts in the game. This could be countered by having more universal parts. For instance, you could have blades, which could be fashioned onto swords, daggers, rapiers, or scythes. This, however, does not make complete sense. It could be made so that the bars have the effects on them, and the player crafts them, or the player receives a blade, fashions it onto the weapon of his/her choice, and to turn it back into a universal blade again, it must be taken to a blacksmith NPC for a price (this could be a good money sink). With that in mind, there could be much less universal parts:

Blades (all bladed weapons and arrows; one blade would make many arrows; or an arrow = infinite arrows of that kind? also, do weapon degrade? probably not)
Wood (hilts, staves, bows, arrow shafts)
String (bows)
More?
Could also have special weapons (most likely ones with proper nouns for names) that break the rule in that certain parts (or every part) of them cannot be modified.
The separate weapons parts is especially a neat idea if the weapon appearance changes as each part of it changes. In other words, a weapon has no fixed appearance (except for the special cases mentioned above); each part ragdolls with the others to create a complete appearance.
No matter which is chosen - parts or mods - would armor (including shields) also have this customization?
Enchantments? Find some way to even out the fact that some weapons obviously have less parts than others, and therefore less bonuses. Maybe something like part effectiveness could be level 1-5 or 1-10, and what the actual number is depends on the weapon it is applied to; things like shurikens, which only require one piece to be made, would get a greater bonus than something like a sword, which requires two. However, this could also be evened out with something like attack speed and weapon range. The fact that some weapons attack at a further range or faster could make up for their decreased power.
On that note, take into account attack speed and weapon range. Should all weapons of the same type have the same attack speed (i.e. all daggers attack at the same rate) and range? For that matter, do different weapons even deal different amounts of damage, or is playstyle entirely dependent upon the skills each talent provides? Should the above customizations actually be mods, and the weapon parts simply skins that the player can choose to his or her liking? This was kind of fun in Guild Wars, as the weapon you wielded truly depended on how much you liked its appearance!
Should certain weapons complement certain talents? I.e. do you attack better with a bow when wearing certain armor? This may limit builds. Your run speed should probably at least be dependent on both your agility and your weight. Should weight be determined by armor only? All equipment? Entire inventory?
Weapons could have two effects: one for physical and one for magical attacks. For instance, all rapiers could give +10% attack speed and parry for physical, while giving -15% cast time and parry for magic (how do you determine if they are physical or magical? maybe just let the player choose? maybe each weapon just has two passive effects that the player can choose to level up (should the player be able to choose both?)?).

Other Ideas
Elements - A player can be attuned to one (?) element at a time. Each element has certain effects. On what? Skills? All attacks? Damage taken? Might be a bad idea, as this typically reduces the number of viable possible builds (i.e. in Silkroad, archers were always ice because freezing works best with range, meleers were always fire since it was pure damage, -tc.)
Role and balance are important factors. If archers can attack at a distance and that is their only advantage, but it ultimately does them no good, nobody will make archer builds. On the other hand,if archers take down half of the opponent's health before they can even reach him, everyone will use archer builds. Should archers have the element of surprise, primarily hiding in forests and such while the warriors take the field? This could be an interesting PvP mechanic, especially for large-scale wars like RvR (will there be RvR?). However, whatever the case, this should ultimately be left up to the player through the creative process of making a build - and it will be, if the system is made correctly.
Should PvP be focused on 1v1, 2v2, more, etc? It seems that pvp is usually much more strategic when a team is involved, and not just 1v1. 1v1 relies on whatever skilsl you happen to be using. Team relies on the preparation for anything and at the same time an effective attack. However, this is organized team play. Should there also be disorganized?
IMPORTANT - take notes from Runescape quests! Jagex showed that MMO quests can be just as immersive and epic in an online game as they can in an offline. Have expanding, meaningful storylines with messages, moral concepts, and difficult questions. One Piercing note was good. Dramatic music during climaxes that doesnt change. Quests can be funny, too. Parodies might be a good idea. Parody of stupid teenage/college life? Slideshow-type thing with corny music at the end would be funny. 3 Stooges? etc. This could help fill the gap of training skills
Also taking notes from Runescape: Every once in a while, a sweeping UI update can be surprisingly invigorating to players (though this will not last forever).
RS tried to make the game more immersive, more social, more fun, by adding more interesting bars to the game, with more realistic features as a nice "hangout spot" for players. However, there were no real rewards, so they soon became deserted. If there are really to be hangout spots in an MMO, the player must be getting something. Able to combine this with bars? Games with good benefits? If rewards, after players got them, they would leave, so maybe some kind of item that improves drop rates? Damage? XP? Title progress? Stackable, and the only item like it of its kind, so guaranteed players would always be there. Forced rest or something inbetween games would both balance the rate at which players can gain rewards and make it a social spot. RS also made some rewards quite hard to get and/or for a specific purpose (i.e. chaotic weapons, hybrid armors)
Take notes from Elder Scrolls: Blackwood in Skyrim. Now that is an immersive area. Make areas like that. Underwater areas, but you can travel normally?
If no skill training, players will still want some sort of reward of what they do. For what. though? Quests? Winning enough? Getting a high enough rank? And what rewards? Armors? Weapons? Effects?
Wide-area PvP could be made very interesting by having randomly-generated maps. This could take some of the tactical element out of the game, though, as knowing a map can be a big part of strategy. Partly randomly generated maps could work, such as bases, flag positions, etc. having static positions, and the rest random.
Leveling would be a nice idea to attract and grab players for a longer period of time - if not levels, then myabe titles of sorts? i.e. 0 talents = newbie, 10 = beginner, 25 = apprentice, etc.
Could give little rewards for maxing talents like in RS, in the form of equips, achievements, bonuses, what?
Can get a lot of good ideas from other games. RS, for instance. Have something like prayer? Lots of worse weapons/equips become viable with prayer. Make something that scales with your level in the skill (like a weapon or skill does more damage depending on your level in the skill?)
If don't want to make a game based around skills, but player skill level, then anything the player gets would be pure aesthetics. This could still be made fun, though, with dungeons and high-end areas dropping desirable, rare, cool-looking items, as opposed to the plain one that every single person starts out with. Combine this with other drops, like dyes, and the pvm, grindish, rare-drop system that some people love can be combined with the purely player-skill-based system that others love. Another idea is to possibly lock some skill trees until a player has done a certain task to earn them. For instance, a player might have to use bows for a certain number of hours until greatbows is unlocked. Or when a new skill line is released, like vampirism or lichhood, require a quest for it. Bad idea for skills? Hinders player skill? Implies some trees are better than others? Possibly drops that add cool effects to weapons/armor? i.e. different color trails on weapons, auras on armors, etc. Possibly the quest could simply get you different Lich wings or something? Maybe you dont need to do a quest for the skill line, but the quest does start you off with a better-looking pair of wings, and also enabled wing drops from monsters.
What to do on player account birthdays? Game birthdays? (and other holidays?)
Be able to find rare items (plants?) that allow you... what? More xp? Better drops rates? Something with titles, like in GW?
Long-term goals: plants? pets? houses? include these
Another way to do the skill system could be to just have effects. The player creates their own skills with these effects. Each effect costs a certain number of points, depending on how effective you've made it (think Morrowind) - should there be a max cap on some? Ex. fire damage, ice damage, attack speed +, casting speed +, movement speed +, poison, crit chance+, crit damage +. Also, things that can be applied to some effects: every hit, every x hits, etc. (i.e. poison for 3 secs every 3rd hit). Obviously, this could create information overload. To solve this, encapsulate everything within a certain number of effects, like Guild Wars did. Skills could have endless effects, but they all followed some guidelines; i.e. applying conditions, knockdown, interrupt, and that was about it. Still not good? In GW (Morrowind did this well, too),  if you saw a warrior running after you, you knew what kind it was from its auras/seeing its moves and could act accordingly, which was tactical and required thought and skill. How would players be notified of builds like this?
Prepared Stance: You enter a prepared stance, enabling the use of moves requiring Preparation. Preparation can be removed by activating Prepared Stance again, moving, getting knocked back, getting knocked down or getting teleported. While Prepared, you have -x armor (and +x attack? gets better as you level it? no?). (Have the explanation of Preparation and every other condition/effect highlighted and colored, so that the player can hover over/click it to see its effects and how it can be removed (as well as every skill that makes use of it/disables it? maybe not - maybe player should do this).
Then have certain moves (spells as well as attacks (and maybe passives/abilities/transformations, too?) that require Prepared Stance to use. Or an effect:
Preparation: This skill requires Preparation to use. Its damage and duration of conditions that are inflicted are increased by 25%.
Drink from the Pool: You drink from the Pool of Mana, reducing the cost of all skills to 0 . You use Energy, instead, which the Pool's power slowly drains. Every time you are damaged or inflicted with a condition, your Energy drains. What else to do? Maybe change that? This should change how people player completely - kind of like The Mage sign in Oblivion - but still be viable, not overpowered, and not create glass cannons.
Aura of Spikes: All skills cost x more Mana and immediately inflict Cripple on the target for y seconds. Skills that hit multiple targets apply Cripple only to the target that was clicked on. Skills that target an area and cannot choose a single target do not inflict Cripple.
Empowerment of Flame: Every 4 attack, your weapon becomes imbued with the power of the Mana Pool for 20 seconds. It deals x more damage and inflicts Blue Fire for 2 seconds, draining the target's Health and Mana by y every second for z seconds.
Could have skills like these that the player can choose from, as well as skills that they create. Skill points could be used for the skill creation as well as these, so the player must choose carefully if they want powerful passives or not (or maybe passive points should be totally separate, or only be able to choose 1 or 2 - like a red and a blue passive, for instance, too avoid overpowered builds - maybe green or something could go with both red and blue). 
Could have tiered skills, with the highest tier costing a lot of skill points and only allowing one on a bar./

